# Proposed System Design Document (v2)

## Security Requirements (For Reference)

These security requirements **must** be met:
- SR1: A car should only unlock and start when the user has an authentic fob that is paired with the car
- SR2: Revoking an attacker’s physical access to a fob should also revoke their ability to unlock the associated car
- SR3: Observing the communications between a fob and a car while unlocking should not allow an attacker to unlock the car in the future
- SR4: Having an unpaired fob should not allow an attacker to unlock a car without a corresponding paired fob and pairing PIN
- SR5: A car owner should not be able to add new features to a fob that did not get packaged by the manufacturer
- SR6: Access to a feature packaged for one car should not allow an attacker to enable the same feature on another car


## Design Constraints

There are a few requirements within the system design that need to be met in order to achieve all Security Requirements:
- The car **must** be able to verify the paired fob's integrity (SR1)
    - A fob can sign a message using a car's private key
- Replay attacks **must** be unachievable (SR2)
    - A random nonce can be used in communication
- Communication is meaningless to those without private keys (SR3)
    - Communication can be encrypted using ECC
- The pairing pin is **not** brute-forceable (SR4)
    - There is a timeout on pairs permitted; some sort of reflash protection is needed as well
- Features are not forgeable (SR5)
    - Features are **signed** by the manufacturer
- Features packaged for one car should not be enableable on another (SR6)
    - Signing of features will include the car it was intented for.

---

## Devices

There are two types of devices - cars and fobs. They all share common variables used for integrity verification in handshakes:
- `priv_key`: device unique private key
- `pub_key`: device unique pub key
- `signature`: factory signature of public key

---

## Messages

Messages are packets sent over UART1 from one embedded device to another. While all devices can send messages, only fobs can initiate a conversation between the two devices. They have the following structure:

```c
struct Message {
    uint8_t magic; //packet type
    uint16_t nonce; //counter for current message. Only packets with a higher nonce than the last will be considered
    uint8_t[30] payload; //type-specific payload
    uint8_t[64] signature; //(optional) signature
    uint8_t[64] pub_key; //sender public key
    uint8_t[64] certificate; //certificate of pub_key
    uint8_t[32] padding; //padding to get to 256 bytes.
}
```

The following are valid packet types (magics):
```
unlock (0x6A) | paired fob -> car
pair   (0x7B) | unpaired fob -> paired fob
```

If a packet has either an invalid magic or nonce, or is sent to the wrong device type, it will be discarded. `hello` messages can reset a nonce.

The goal of the `Message` data structure is to prevent reply attacks and ensure the integrity of each message. 

---

## Conversations

Conversations are a **two way** handshake between embedded devices comprised of *messages*. The implementation goal is to ensure communication secrecy and disallow replay attacks (As per SR3). 

Each conversation consists of a **client** and a **server**. The **client** always initiates the conversation with a `hello` message and the following `payload` (see above):

```c
struct hello {
    uint8_t hello_magic; //0x48 'H'
    uint8_t[30] fob_entropy; //30 bytes of random data to be used in a handshake
}
```

**Only fobs can initialize a conversation (send a hello message).**

Upon recieving a valid hello message, a conversation is initiated between the sender and recipient of the messages, comprised of a two way *Challenge* followed by an accept/reject message by the server.

The next step is an `acknowledge` message:

```c
struct ack {
    uint8_t ack_magic; //0x41 'A'
    uint8_t[12] s_entropy;
    uint8_t[18] chal; //f(c_entropy, c_pub, s_entropy)
}
```

Upon verification that the response is legit, the client will send a request packet to actually execute a command:

```c
struct exe {
    uint8_t exe_magic; //e.g. 0x55 'U'
    uint8_t[18] resp; //f(chal)
    uint8_t[12] command; //command specific data
}
```

Finally, an accept/reject message is sent to the client from the server:

```c
struct status {
    uint8_t status_magic; //0x53 'S'
    uint8_t[30] msg; //char[] message
}
```

Upon recieving these accept and reject messages, a secured connection will be established and other packets can be sent sent, although these packets will still need to be signed.

---

## Concerns

Entropy is hard. By using entropy from two completely separate devices, we can hopefully make it much harder to create predictable / repeatable patterns.

We plan on having a seed, generated by a combination of the starting temperature, the RAM of the device on startup (which appears to be semi-random according to this [study](https://eprint.iacr.org/2013/304.pdf)). Our rand() function will be a combination of the seed and the analog system of the two devices which have a conversation. 

Our hope is that even if attackers can reliably determine the randomness of one device, the second device can add a layer of additional randomness.

---

## Unlock Request

An unlock request is a type of conversation that is initiated by a paired fob to the car it is paired with. These messages have the default structure as shown below:

```c
struct Unlock {
    uint8_t magic; // 0x6A magic for unlocking the car
    uint8_t car_id; //Car's id that the paired key stores. This is used to verify that the request is for the car (SR1)
    char[64] feature_list; //some kind of encoding. longer = better? (more entropy for rsa)
    char[64] rand_bytes; //rand
    uint8_t[127] pad; //random bit padding to get 256 bytes
    uint8_t[32] hash; //hash over above?
    uint8_t[32] signature; //signature over hash (or maybe just hash contents instead)
}
```
Upon recieving an unlock request from the fob, the car will first check if there is are any features needed to be added. If there are, then the car will verify that the features are intended for it and then add the features to the car. 
Afterwards, the car will send a challenge message (see above) to the fob.

---

## Pair Request

A pair request is a type of conversation that is initiated by an unpaired fob to a fob that it is paired with. These messages have the default structure as shown below:

```c
struct Pair_packet{
    uint8_t magic; // 0x7B magic for the pairing
    uint8_t[11] thing; // to be updated here!
}
```